+++
categories = []
date = 2022-01-29T22:00:00Z
description = ""
image = "/images/sunset.jpg"
tags = []
title = "Patterns of acceptance"
type = "post"

+++
It’s not easy being a zoophile. Sure, it’s got its upsides. But as a group zoos are incredibly persecuted, with active oppositional communities hunting down members for the chance to harass them or to try and “out” them. But, it’s not like the zoophile community is unique in this persecution. All groups that are off from the norm had to go through the same process in order to gain acceptance. And while it's frustrating that this keeps happening, as zoos we’re lucky that we have so much history that we can look back on, to help see how far we’ve come, and the steps that we need to take to keep moving forwards. And if any of you out there are feeling worn down or hopeless, I can assure you that we’re already well on our way. There's no doubt that the group that interlaps the most with zoophiles is furries, so lets take a look at how that community has progressed to the massive social movement that it's become today.  
   
 Acceptance comes down to one thing in the end, and that’s normalization. Furries first came about in the 1990’s, and were the punching bag of the internet for a long time. Anyone who grew up in the 2000’s and early 2010’s knows that being a furry was incredibly looked down upon. Many of you are probably familiar with the infamous CSI “Fur and Loathing” episode, which depicted furries as loser sex fiends who met up in the desert to fuck around a campfire. But it wasn’t just fictional stories that depicted furries as such, it was the media as well. There were stories on the national news warning parents about the fandom. On the internet it was the worst. Social media didn’t exist like it does today, but that didn’t stop tons of people from creating blog posts and youtube videos all around how all furries are perverts, and how the whole community is based in debauchery.   
   
 But all of that negative attention did something unexpected. I’m sure you’ve heard the phrase “all press is good press”, and honestly, it’s true. Press is normalization. If you see something in the news, see something on the internet, see something in your friend groups, it stops being shocking to you, and it becomes normal. And with that extra range from all the free advertising, the idea of being a furry got out to so many more people too. People that would have never heard of furries suddenly had the community basically advertised to them. So, as the 2010’s moved on, the number of furries grew exponentially, and the backlash against the community died down too. Nowadays, there are even large brands trying to focus marketing specifically towards furries. But the growth of the furry community had a lot less obstacles than the growth of the zoo community. One of the biggest being that there was never a question of criminality when it came to anthropomorphic characters on the internet. There's another group we can look at, however, that faced a lot of the same problems we are today, and managed to come out on top.  
   
 The gay rights movement is another example of the same pattern. The first gay rights activism movement was founded in the States in 1924, but was quickly shut down due to political pressure. Over the next three decades there was a complicated back and forth between science and social political backlash going back and forth on the "Dangers of homosexuality". New activist groups were popping up all over the country, populace support was growing, scientists were publishing studies about how homosexuals were just like everyone else. But at the same time, the government was banning homosexuals from working in office, homosexuality was being added as a mental disorder, and the senate was publishing reports like “Employment of Homosexuals and Other Sex Perverts in Government”.   
   
 But all of that groundwork was opening up the movement to society at large, and little by little peoples minds were being changed. In the 1970’s things finally started to show progress. States were beginning to legalize homosexuality, protests began to start forming in states that weren’t, and perception started to flip. It was being shown over and over again that anyone could be gay, and that being gay didn’t stop you from also being a good person. And the more people that came out as gay, the more normal it was to come out in the first place. By 2003, the supreme court agreed that anti-sodomy laws were unconstitutional, and nowadays while there are still pockets of homophobia, the mass majority of people are not just neutral, but could be considered allies. In America, those that are against it tend to be much older people that have never changed their viewpoints, while in the younger generations support is almost universal.  
   
 There are so many other examples of this that all follow the same trends. From marijuana to gaming and anime, we’ve seen this time and time again. It starts from voices speaking out over time, and those voices get loud enough that it becomes a story, and that story grows and grows with more voices that didn’t realize that they were part of a community all along. They come together and find people that are just like them. While in the beginning those stories are negative, and the public reaction is fully against the movement, it still all serves the same goals. Normalization, and community growth.  
   
 Looking back to the zoophile community, it’s clear that we’re still in that first phase of this process. Zoophiles have been around for a long time, but as a small community. As of 2020, 5.6% of Americans identify as LGBTQ, with that number increasing dramatically if you’re polling people in the teen range. Roughly 0.3% of Americans are or have been furries. And the number of self identified zoophiles? We don’t know. The statistics are really unclear. If you’re only counting the ones that are actively participating in the discussion, it’s definitely much lower than even furries. But, the number is growing. Especially with the help of social media, it’s becoming easier than ever to create groups and form bonds with other zoos around the country, and even around the world! And that connection helps. People coming together boosts the signal, and now we’ve got podcasts, youtube channels, and a few activist groups here and there. Even looking at academia there are more and more publications coming out in support of zoophilia, and very few if any that are against it. People are realizing that the common tropes like “Animals can’t consent” aren’t enough against all the information out there showing that they can. And publications like this one do so much to help introduce people to the concept in a very easy to digest way (and sharing always helps, so sharing this would be appreciated.)   
   
 But there’s still more work to be done. In the next 5 to 10 years, I honestly believe that we’re going to see this issue become something in the social mind, and from there, normalization starts to occur. It's not as simple as just having a voice though. It's important that the message that we're putting out is one of positivity and openness. We need to show that as a community we're not ashamed or embarrassed about who we are, we're just like everyone else.   
   
 I know that we can do it, and I'm really excited to see a future where we can be open about our love with the world. I think that's a goal worth working for.